Runtime_Support/dot_net_core.md, before:

# .NET Core on App Service

## .NET Core Update Policy

App Service upgrades the underlying .NET Core runtime and SDK of your application as part of the regular platform updates. As a result of this update process, your application will be automatically updated to the latest patch version available in the platform for the configured minor version of your app.

### End of Life

Once a version of .NET Core has reached it's end of life (EOL) it will no longer be available from Runtime Stack selection dropdown.

Existing applications configured to target a runtime version that has reached EOL should not be affected.

## Support Timeline

|    Version    | Support Status |   End of Support  |   OS Support    |
|---------------| -------------- | ----------------- |---------------- |
| .NET Core 1.0 | End of Life    | June 27 2019      | Windows & Linux |
| .NET Core 1.1 | End of Life    | June 27 2019      | Windows & Linux |
| .NET Core 2.0 | End of Life    | October 1, 2018   | Windows & Linux |
| .NET Core 2.1 | LTS            | August 21, 2021   | Windows & Linux |
| .NET Core 2.2 | Maintenance    | December 23, 2019 | Windows & Linux |
| .NET Core 3.0 | Maintenance    | March 3, 2020     | Windows & Linux |
| .NET Core 3.1 | LTS            | n/a               | Windows & Linux |

[.NET Core Support timeline](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core)

Commit message:

EarlyAccess document (#58)
* Initial writup on Early Access builds

* updating .net support doc

* addign info about AI limitation

* Addressign PR feedback

* Addressign PR feedback

* updating detection logic for .NET5

* adding release note for VS and VS for Mac

* fixing my grammar and brain to hand interface

* removing extra space

Runtime_Support/dot_net_core.md, after:

# .NET on App Service

## .NET Update Policy

App Service upgrades the underlying .NET runtime and SDK of your application as part of the regular platform updates. As a result of this update, your application will be automatically updated to the latest patch version available in the platform for the configured minor version of your app.

### End of Life

Once a version of .NET Core has reached it's end of life (EOL) it will no longer be available from Runtime Stack selection dropdown.

Existing applications configured to target a runtime version that has reached EOL should not be affected.

## .NET 5 Early Access limitations

During the early access period, .NET 5 apps will be subject to the **Early Access** limitations listed in the [early access support document](./early_access.md).

[Application Insights](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/monitor) is currently not supported for .NET 5 apps, we are working with the Application Insights team to resolve this.

Visual Studio and Visual Studio for Mac will not support creating new .NET 5 Apps on App Service through the IDE at launch. As a workaround .NET 5 Apps can be created from the Azure Portal or Azure CLI.
Publishing content to a .NET 5 app works as expected. There is a schedule update that will remove this limitation.

## Support Timeline

|    Version    | Support Status |   End of Support  |   OS Support    |
|---------------| -------------- | ----------------- |---------------- |
| .NET 5        | Current        | Feb, 2023         | Windows & Linux |
| .NET Core 3.1 | LTS            | December 3, 2022  | Windows & Linux |
| .NET Core 3.0 | End of Life    | March 3, 2020     | Windows & Linux |
| .NET Core 2.2 | End of Life    | December 23, 2019 | Windows & Linux |
| .NET Core 2.1 | LTS            | August 21, 2021   | Windows & Linux |
| .NET Core 2.0 | End of Life    | October 1, 2018   | Windows & Linux |
| .NET Core 1.1 | End of Life    | June 27 2019      | Windows & Linux |
| .NET Core 1.0 | End of Life    | June 27 2019      | Windows & Linux |

[.NET Core Support timeline](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core)
